Rheinmetall Argus Soldier System

 


American Rheinmetall Systems, LLC
15 Morin St
Biddeford, ME 04005
https://www.rheinmetall-defence.com/en/rheinmetall_defence/index.php


POC: Mike Cassidy
   Tel: (912) -655-6451
Email:  mike.cassisy@arsusa.com
 



1.  Technology Name. Rheinmetall Argus Soldier System

2.  Technology Description. 
The Rheinmetall Argus Soldier System is a set of electronic communication components optimally integrated into a Modular Load Carriage System (MLCS). It is worn by individual soldiers on the battlefield, connecting them to a central network and facilitating communication between platoon-level combat units. Argus is network agnostic and can be integrated with any modern soldier radio, using a standard data interface such as USB or Ethernet. Argus is ergonomic, simple, intuitive, light, and energy efficient.

Argus is encompassed of a rugged Tactical User Interface (TUI) that runs the Argus Battle Management System (BMS) application, a Hub that interconnects its various components (i.e. radio, batteries), a Laser Range Finder (camera, etc.), and a soldier radio (generally supplied by the contracting authority as GFE). The basic system (TUI, Hub, single battery, associated cabling, and pouches) weighs less than TBD kg (excluding the GFE radio). In its simplest form, the radio can connect to an Android device – such as a smartphone or tablet – with the BMS installed, instead of using the Hub and central battery.

 
Figure 1 – Argus components
Increased situational awareness for dismounted infantrymen
The key to maintaining an operational advantage on the modern battlefield is the use of a network, which provides a high level of situational awareness and activity synchronization. During tactical maneuvers, individual soldiers and commanders need to understand where they are, where the rest of their force element is, and where the enemy is. They must then be able to share that information.
Individuals are equipped with a TUI, which lets them view – in real-time, on an accurate map display – friendly, neighboring, neutral, and hostile forces’ positions, as well as terrain obstacles, mine barriers, destroyed bridges, and more.
Each connected soldier also becomes a “sensor,” and is able to quickly share tactical information using the map, providing a commonly understood and coherent picture while reducing the risk of friendly fire.  
The TUI screen displays the soldier’s surrounding environment, reproduced on different types of maps. Team members and their personal info are also visible (GPS position, call signs, names, position within the organization). 
Enemy positions, friendly units, points of interest, terrain features, waypoints, and other mission-critical data are also marked on the map, including any useful control measures that may be required. 
By clicking the map, soldiers can view basic information, including distance from their position, grid location, and bearing for all on-screen data. When needed, they can navigate to the Main Menu to access all BMS features. 

A powerful commanding tool for leaders
Argus is an effective command-enabling tool. The system allows ground commanders to acquire an accurate, real-time, coherent picture of the tactical situation, for proper decision-making. Argus also helps users transmit orders more efficiently. Voice is king on the battlefield, and tactical voice communication remains the commander’s channel of choice to guide troops. However, a great deal of tactical information is better off being transmitted as data: by enabling this, voice traffic will be significantly reduced, creating a greater capacity for command via voice. Rule of thumb: voice for command, data for control.
The system also helps commanders define the relative priorities of individual voice and data services: in other words, commanders can make sure that the right information reaches the right person, at the right time.
In some cases, not all soldiers need the full Argus system. Some can be equipped with audio components only, plus the radio. Using the radio’s built-in position reporting function, Argus can gather a soldier’s position and display it as simple Blue PA on the commander’s BMS. In this configuration, only the commander will have eyes on the tactical situation and soldiers’ locations, commanding them via radio. 
Finally, Argus will act as a planning tool: commanders will be able to electronically extract and re-use certain elements of their superiors’ plans and subordinates’ inputs, thereby reducing the risk of human error when transposing information. Each commander will then be able to complete their own plans, disseminating them quickly and accurately. This will be of particular value during mission execution, when dynamic plan adjustments must be made quickly and sent out immediately. 
Light load, clear mind  
Designed with agility in mind, Argus is as compact and light as possible to reduce the physical burden. The weight of a soldier’s equipment, combined with the general distribution of the load and the distance and duration of the journey, can diminish performance. Extreme durations and heavy loads lead to sluggishness, fatigue, and a higher risk of injury and casualty, impacting soldiers’ mobility, lethality, ability to perform general tasks, and cognition.
The lightweight Argus system (3.8 kg with battery) improves stamina by reducing soldiers’ physical burdens. Its low power requirement also allows for less frequent battery replacement/recharging (1xbattery: 36 hours/ 2xbatteries: 72 hours). 
The modular Argus system is fully integrated into the MLCS – all components are easily accessible to soldiers of all sizes and trades. The modular approach allows soldiers to optimize component and equipment configurations, enhancing freedom of movement.
Argus is designed to be ergonomic, simple, and intuitive. The TUI can easily be operated with one hand, and its resistive touchscreen – compatible with tactical gloves or a stylus for precision – is simple to use. The seven selection buttons on top of the unit are easily to use while holding the unit. The display is clear and readable in both day and night conditions, from bright sunlight to complete darkness. The same philosophy applies to the BMS user interface. Today’s soldiers are used to smartphones, and they expect their battlefield technology to be just as intuitive. 
Designed for soldiers’ needs 
Argus significantly increases soldiers’ situational awareness without hindering their ability to perform normal functions or causing unnecessary distractions. All of its components are designed and ruggedized to withstand rough environments: the system is fully qualified to MIL-STD-810G standards. To reduce visible signatures, the system only emits light via the TUI display, which can be switched off while the user performs voice communications and while the system transmits/receives Blue PA. The TUI has also a low luminance mode for nighttime operation, and is compatible with NVG equipment. 
On top of enhancing situational awareness, Argus is completely secure: access to the system is password-protected, the radio provides Over-The-Air (OTA) data encryption for all communications, and each Argus kit can be manually or remotely zeroed via the radio to avoid unauthorized access in case of emergency. The zeroing process deletes all mission data on the TUI’s main data storage. 
Evolutive and modular 
Our method is far from an unrealistic big-bang approach that aims to establish full connectivity across the entire battlefield with a single program. Argus focuses on delivering the most essential benefits starting at the platoon level, and provides the scalability and modularity necessary to gradually evolve as requirements change.  
A future-proof system 
Thanks to its open architecture framework (open standards and protocols), the Argus soldier system can be expanded to run additional applications in the future, maximizing operational capabilities. Argus users also have the power to add specific extensions from either legacy or third party systems. The system has been integrated with Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), sniper location systems, external military GPS (Rockwell Collins’ Defence Advanced GPS Receiver (DAGR) and Remote Secure Receiver (RSR)), digital cameras, and laser range finders (LRF). When the GFE radio throughput allows it, the Argus BMS enables network members to share sensor information. Argus also provides backward compatibility across different software versions so that new features can be added to the BMS without interfering with previous unrelated features. All new features are developed with user feedback in mind, and with approval from experts in relevant fields. 
By developing a future-proof solution, Rheinmetall gives users the ability to start with what they need today, alongside the possibility to add on more features as requirements evolve in subsequent phases.     

 


Connectable to higher C4I levels
While its primary focus is the platoon, Argus is also able to connect with higher levels of command, thanks to the Argus Gateway module. This technology is hosted within the commander’s computer. The Gateway translates messages from the Argus Protocol to formats supported by other nations like VMF, STANAG 4677, and NFFI. This module is a software that can run on any computer.


3.  Concept of Employment.  
Argus should be worn by every soldier in the platoon to enhance their capacity to conduct missions. The commanders and 2ICs should be equipped with tablet-sized displays to facilitate mission planning.


4.  Operators. 
Is your technology suitable for use by Infantry Soldiers? YES.


5.  Military Problem Statement. 
Since the dawn of the new millennium, armies have struggled to provide individual soldiers with additional communication (voice and data), situational awareness, and navigation capabilities in a coherent and well-integrated way without increasing physical and cognitive burden. 


6.  Technology Maturity.  
Argus is fully qualified and is being fielded in Canada under the Integrated Soldier System Project (ISSP). As of today, more than 1,600 Argus kits have been delivered to Canada. 


7. Experiment Environment.  
Rheinmetall considers that the Argus would be better assessed using a Force-on-Force venue. Using this approach would allow the Argus system to be compared against the in-service Nett Warrior (NW) solution.


8. Partnerships.  NO.


9.  Integration. 
•	Nett Warrior soldier radios with mating connectors (one per Argus kit). 
Are you bringing it? N.
2) COTS Android platforms (i.e. commercial smartphones and tablets) to demonstrate the Argus Battle Management System (BMS) application’s operation on the COTS platform (i.e. the baseline Argus solution uses a rugged, full MIL spec custom-designed Tactical User Interface (TUI).
Are you bringing it? Y.

10. Training.  The Argus Soldier System is extremely easy to use. Half a day of training should suffice to learn the basics of this system.


11. Quantity.  Ten (10) Argus kits. 


12. Video Submissions (optional).  https://www.rheinmetall.ca/en/rheinmetall_canada/systemsandproducts/electronicsystems/soldier_systems/index.php.   


13.  Objectives.  

Objective 1: In what ways and to what extent does the Argus system improve upon the in-service Nett Warrior system?

Objective 2: What are the shortfalls that need to be addressed to better meet US soldiers’ needs?

